# Design Diary - Network Builder - 05/04/2020
### Final Project for CS 211 (Data Structures)
---

For this final project, my idea was to make something where a user could drag and drop networking equipment onto a floor plan layout for a building. As the equipment is laid out, the program finds the optimal wiring plan such that the least amount of wire is used. To accomplish this, I started by creating a UI and an "inventory" at the bottom of the screen, and made a drag handler to handle the collisions of an inventory item and a room. Once this was done, I made several classes to represent everything in the UI. I started this proccess by making Location class that would allow me to represent each room and the "dimensions" (length of the room) to give the program a number to represent wiring distance. I also made a property of adjacent rooms to allow pathfinding between connected rooms. Next, I built out a NetworkNode class to represent a piece of networking equipment and the location where it was dropped. Afterwards, I built out a class, NodeConnection, to represent a connection between a starting NetworkNode and an ending NetworkNode, this class also needed a pathway between them as well as an overall path length to compare different paths. To handle the pathway, I made a ConnectionPath class which essentially had a list of locations and added up all of the location lengths to get a path length. I also made this class inherit from Icomparable and Ienumerable so that I could plug and play it with the priority queue structure I got from Adam. Once this was done, I went back to the NodeConnection class and made sure that only equiment that provides internet would get connected to other devices, and I implemented Dijktra's algorithm to find the shortest ConnectionPath between two items if they were "compatible." After I finished this, I built the overall NetworkGraph structure, which basically was a dictionary that mapped NetworkNodes (verticies) to NodeConnections (edges), and made an algorithm using a seperate dictionary, to find all of the shortest connections (MCST). Once this was done, I made a game manager script that held the graph and the location instances and I was able to dynamically add Nodes to the graph through the draghandler script by getting the name of the dragged object and the name of the parent (its location). For the final step, I drew out all of the possible connections between locations using game objects, and made another dictionary to map the game objects to a NodeConnection, allowing me to activate those game objects based on the NodeConnections in the MCST.

THis project challenged me in many different ways. For starters, it really pushed me and tested my knowledge over this year, especially in hash tables and graphs (which is the only data structure I hadn't really worked with in a project this year). Another area where I was pushed was in object oriented design. Advanced design really isn't an area I have any expertise in, but I do think I structured everything pretty well and made well-thought-out classes for the level I am at, which I am pretty proud of. Another thing that I was challenged with was school and life balance. I touched on this a little in my presentation, but originally I was thinking of just giving up on this assignment because I felt pretty burnt out from personal stuff, but I pushed myself to get the project done, and for that, regardless of the grade I get, I am proud. 

Something I didn't get done that I would have liked to fix was the repositioning of objects that were already up. I never got around to this as I had to shift my focus to other classes and projects after presentaions, but I did think about it and think I could solve it with some more time.

Anyways, that's all I have as far as the project is concerned. I just wanted to say that my experience with your classes has easily been my best experience with any teacher. I really enjoy the way they are structured, the project based learning, the freedom to go outside of basic requirements, and how well everything ties together. Anyways, thanks again for everything and have a great summer! 